Draft: Provide initialization documentation for cloning Dandi ecosystem (#104)
dandi/handbook: docs/61_dandi_authentication.md

## Setting up your GitHub OAuth Account

> 

Reviewer: Recommendation: Add a note about upgrading Amazon SES Account from Sandbox to Production mode.

It seems like this process can take some time since it requires opening a case with AWS and a bit of back and forth. Would be nice to go through this process earlier on/concurrently with other steps so that it isn't a blocker later.

Reviewer: Yes! Maybe something along the lines of

> In Amazon Simple Email Service (SES) you will need to switch from SES sandbox to production, following the AWS instructions linked [here](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/ses/latest/dg/request-production-access.html). 
While your account is in the Amazon SES sandbox, certain restrictions are applied such as the inability to send emails to non-verified email addresses. This will cause errors when users are trying to create an account since the code is setup to send an email to the user once they're registered.

Let me know if you want something more/different!

Please follow the steps in [Initialize Vendors - GitHub](../60_initialize_vendors/#github) to get started.

For the next steps in setting up authentication, you'll want to record the values
created during [Obtaining your Oauth App creds](..60_initialize_vendors/#obtaining-your-oauth-app-credentials).

## Creating and Updating Objects in the DANDI Archive Admin Panel

### Creating "Sites" and "Social App" Objects

> **In order to complete this step, you will need to have deployed an initial DANDI Archive API**.  See [Creating the DANDI Archive API](../64_dandi_archive) for more details.

Reviewer: Recommendation: Consider re-ordering the pages for Authentication, CLI, Infrastructure, and Archive.

We (EMBER) roughly did things in the following order:
- Infrastructure
- Archive
- Authentication
- CLI

Of course there was a little back and forth but in general this order seemed to work well

> **In order to complete this step, you will need to have deployed an initial DANDI Archive API** -- see here for more details [Creating the DANDI Archive API](../64_dandi_archive)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**In order to complete this step, you will need to have deployed an initial DANDI Archive API**.  See [Creating the DANDI Archive API](../64_dandi_archive) for more details.
```

<br/><br/>

Create a `Social Application` object with:

* The Provider as `GitHub`
* The client ID as your GitHub OAuth client ID
* The client secret as your GitHub OAuth client secret
* Two `Sites` objects -- these objects you should have created a few steps prior

### Updating (or creating) the "Application" Object

Stay signed in the Django Admin panel. Update (or create, if not present) an `Application` object. Similar to the steps above,
populate the client ID with your Github OAuth client ID. See the screenshot below for the configuration that would be appropriate.

If this object exists (it can if you ran migrations first or deployed to Heroku), update the values to your appropriate redirect URLs and client ID.

<br/><br/>
<img
src="../img/django_app.png"
alt="django_app"
style="width: 60%; height: auto; display: block; margin-left: auto;  margin-right: auto;"/>
<br/><br/>

After creating this object, you are all set in the Django Admin panel for now.

## Populating appropriate values for the frontend to handle authentication

This step assumes that you have [successfully set up your Netlify account](../60_initialize_vendors/#netlify).

> There are two places to update values relevant to the frontend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two places to update values relevant to the frontend in the [dandi-archive](https://github.com/dandi/dandi-archive/tree/master/web) repository.
```

Reviewer 2: Oops, just saw the note below.

- `netlify.toml`
- `.env.production`

> For `netlify.toml`: This should be located in the `web/` sub-directory -- [see DANDI Archive web/netlify.toml](https://github.com/dandi/dandi-archive/blob/master/web/netlify.toml). This is a file in which you can configure different settings for different environments in Netlify

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `netlify.toml`: This should be located in the `web/` sub-directory -- [see DANDI Archive web/netlify.toml](https://github.com/dandi/dandi-archive/blob/master/web/netlify.toml). This is a file in which you can configure different settings for different environments in Netlify.
```

> For `.env.production`: This should also be located in the `web/` sub-directory --  [see DANDI Archive web/.env.production](https://github.com/dandi/dandi-archive/blob/master/web/.env.production). This is a file that will inject environment variables into the frontend upon build (e.g. `vite build`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For `.env.production`: This should also be located in the `web/` sub-directory --  [see DANDI Archive web/.env.production](https://github.com/dandi/dandi-archive/blob/master/web/.env.production). This is a file that will inject environment variables into the frontend upon build (e.g. `vite build`).
```

# Work In Progress

> ## Setting up your GitHub OAuth Account

Author: @waxlamp @jjnesbitt @mvandenburgh would be great if you could review

Please follow the steps in [Initialize Vendors - GitHub](../60_initialize_vendors/#github) to get started.

For the next steps in setting up authentication, you'll want to record the values
created during [Obtaining your Oauth App creds](..60_initialize_vendors/#obtaining-your-oauth-app-credentials).

## Creating and Updating Objects in the DANDI Archive Admin Panel

### Creating "Sites" and "Social App" Objects

*In order to complete this step, you will need to have deployed an initial DANDI Archive API -- see here for more details [Creating the DANDI Archive API](../64_dandi_archive)

First, sign in via the Django admin panel with your credentials created via the [Creating an admin user account for the DANDI Archive API step](../64_dandi_archive/#creating-a-django-superuser-admin-account)

The Django Admin panel should be located at: `<your_full_api_url/admin`

<br/><br/>
<img
src="../img/admin_panel.png"
alt="admin_panel"
style="width: 60%; height: auto; display: block; margin-left: auto;  margin-right: auto;"/>
<br/><br/>

> Next, you'll want to proceed to the `Sites' tab -- create 2 sites, one for your UI, and another for your API domain

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Proceed to the `Sites` tab. Create 2 sites: one for your UI, and another for your API domain.
```

<br/><br/>
<img
src="../img/site_admin.png"
alt="site_admin"
style="width: 60%; height: auto; display: block; margin-left: auto;  margin-right: auto;"/>
<br/><br/>

> Next, you'll want to proceed to the `Social applications` tab, located on the left side panel. Once in this panel, you'll need to click
> `Add Social Application` in the top right corner

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Proceed to the `Social applications` tab, located on the left side panel. 
Click `Add Social Application` in the top right corner.
```

<br/><br/>
<img
src="../img/social_app_panel.png"
alt="social_app_panel"
style="width: 60%; height: auto; display: block; margin-left: auto;  margin-right: auto;"/>
<br/><br/>

> Once in this panel, you'll want to create a `Social Application` object with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create a `Social Application` object with:
```

• The Provider as `GitHub`
• The client ID as your GitHub OAuth client ID
• The client secret as your GitHub OAuth client secret
• Two `Sites` objects -- these objects you should have created a few steps prior

### Updating (or creating) the "Application" Object

> Stay signed in the Django Admin panel. You'll next want to update (or create if not present) an `Application` object. Similar to the steps above,
> you'll need to populate the client ID with your Github OAuth client ID -- see the screenshot below for the configuration that would be appropriate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Stay signed in the Django Admin panel. Update (or create, if not present) an `Application` object. Similar to the steps above,
populate the client ID with your Github OAuth client ID. See the screenshot below for the configuration that would be appropriate.
```

> If this object exists (it can if you ran migrations first/deployed to Heroku), you can simply update the values to your appropriate redirect URLs and client ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If this object exists (it can if you ran migrations first or deployed to Heroku), update the values to your appropriate redirect URLs and client ID.
```

<br/><br/>
<img
src="../img/django_app.png"
alt="django_app"
style="width: 60%; height: auto; display: block; margin-left: auto;  margin-right: auto;"/>
<br/><br/>

After creating this object, you are all set in the Django Admin panel for now.

## Populating appropriate values for the frontend to handle authentication

This step assumes that you have [successfully set up your Netlify account](../60_initialize_vendors/#netlify).

> There are two places that you'll want to update values relevant to your frontend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are two places to update values relevant to the frontend.
```

- `netlify.toml`
- `.env.production`

For `netlify.toml`: This should be located in the `web/` sub-directory -- [see DANDI Archive web/netlify.toml](https://github.com/dandi/dandi-archive/blob/master/web/netlify.toml). This is a file in which you can configure different settings for different environments in Netlify

For `.env.production`: This should also be located in the `web/` sub-directory --  [see DANDI Archive web/.env.production](https://github.com/dandi/dandi-archive/blob/master/web/.env.production). This is a file that will inject environment variables into the frontend upon build (e.g. `vite build`)

> You'll need to update the relevant values that reflect what was in your `Social Application` object for both files. You will also notice an environment variable related to `Sentry` -- this value can be obtained from your Sentry account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Update the relevant values that reflect what was in your `Social Application` object for both files. You will also notice an environment variable related to `Sentry` -- this value can be obtained from your Sentry account.
```
